# shopping-cart

This program is a checkoout counter utility. It requires the pandas, datetime, dotenv, os, and sendgrid packages to be isntalled before use. <br>
To run this program, fork the repository and download it to your machine. <br>
In the shopping-cart directory, use the command "python shopping-cart.py" to run the program.<br>
<br>
 The program prompts the user to enter product identifiers, which are stored and read in from "products.txt". Once they have completed their purchases they must enter "DONE" to signal they have finished. They are then asked if they are a member of the store's rewards program. The prompts for the rewards program are designed to tell the clerk exactly what to ask the customer and indicate the valid inputs for the customer's answer. <br>
  <p>The rewards program awards members 1 point for every dollar they spend with the store. If they have over 100 points, $3 is automatically taken off of their bill. Members' emails, first names, and number of points are stored in the "members.csv" file. If a user indicates they are a member, they must use their email to login. Members are also eligible to have their receipts emailed to them. After logging in with their email, members are asked if they would like to have their receipt emailed to them. Responding "y" to this prompt will email a receipt to their stored email if it is valid. If it is not valid and the email cannot be sent, a message will indicate the email could not be sent and the receipt will print to the terminal. If the member has over 100 points after their purchase, on output will notify them and a $3 discount will be applied to their total and present on their receipt.</p><br>
  <p>If the user enters "n" to indicate they are not a member when prompted, they will be shown a brief description of the rewards program and asked if they'd like to join. If they enter "y" to indicate they would like to join, they must then enter their email and name when prompted. The program enforces unique emails for members and users can not sign up with an email that is already stored in "members.csv". After they succesfully sign up, their points will be displayed and their receipt is printed to the terminal. From then on, the email they signed up with can be used to sign into the rewards program as explained above. IF the user does not sign up for the rewards program, their receipt will be printed to the terminal.</p><br>
  
 # Important
 To use the email features of this program, the directory in which shopping_cart.py is run __must__ have a .env file with an environment variable named "SENDGRID_API_KEY" that stores a valid sengrid API key. To obtain an API key, [sign up for a free account](https://signup.sendgrid.com/). You must verify your account and can then [create an API Key](https://app.sendgrid.com/settings/api_keys).
